README.md, before:

# Sours
Sours is an SVG icon theme for Linux. It is a descendant of [Beautyline](https://store.kde.org/p/1425426) and [Candy](https://github.com/EliverLara/candy-icons) icons, with [Sweet folders](https://github.com/EliverLara/Sweet-folders) and substantial original artwork added to complete the theme.

Features:

- Tasty gradients
- Rounded lines
- Uplit
- Sci-fi inspired gaps
- Color-coordinated: files match their app and directory (where possible)
- Monochrome system tray icons (full color option available)

![Preview image for the Sours icon theme](preview/image-38.png)

## Installation
- Extract Sours.tar.gz to ~/.local/share/icons

or

- In System Settings -> Appearance -> Icons, use the 'Install from File...' dialog to find and select Sours.tar.gz

then

- In System Settings -> Appearance -> Icons, select Sours and click Apply (lower right)
- It may be necessary to log out and log back in or restart to fully apply the icon theme (icon caches are stubbornly persistent)

- For Dolphin to use the provided symbolic icons for named folders (like Downloads or Github) it may be necessary to:
    - Right-click the folder and open Properties
    - Click the icon next to its name
    - Choose the corresponding icon in the dialog

## Customization
- To use the icon you want for a particular app:
    - Navigate to ~/.local/share/icons/Sours/apps/scalable
    - Duplicate the app's current icon for a backup
    - Duplicate the desired icon
    - Rename the copy to the correct name for the app and Overwrite in the dialog that appears

- When an app has the default 'W' Walyand icon, you can give it a more specific one by navigating to the 'More actions for this window' menu -> More Actions -> Configure Special Application Settings... -> Add Property -> Desktop file name -> Force -> put the preferred desktop file name. I used this method to correct the OpenRGB icon (desktop file name OpenRGB) and to give Kvantum Preview the Kvantum Manager icon (desktop file name kvantummanager). The .desktop files are located in either ~/.local/share/applications or /usr/share/applications

- Changing icon colors:
    - Use hex color codes in your preferred text editor
    - Changing icon colors in Inkscape, though convenient, is not recommended because Inkscape ignores the `fill` attribute and only modifies the `style` attribute. Both Inkscape and the Dolphin .svg preview prefer the `style` attribute, while rendered icons prefer the `fill` attribute. This creates a frustrating situation where icons will appear changed in Inkscape and Dolphin but will actually render unchanged. To solve this problem, delete `fill` attribute lines, as long as a fill is provided by the `style` attribute. After deleting `fill` attributes, editing colors in Inkscape should go smoothly.
    - [ColorHexa](https://www.colorhexa.com/) can help you identify colors and provide conversions between RGB(A) and hex color codes

- Change gradient direction in Inkscape using the gradient tool

- Modify icon shapes in Inkscape. The rounded lines can be touchy. To modify individual pieces of an icon, you can duplicate the paths you want to change, stretch/shrink the duplicates, and then use the 'Union' Path tool to make your pieces a single path again, creating a new path with the same rounded edges but a different length/width

## Notes
The conversion of Beautyline and Candy into Sours is still ongoing. Please open an issue if you notice where this process could be accelerated.

### Contributing
Icon themes are inevitably a work in progress. Please open an issue if you notice any stock or broken icons. To make an icon request, leave a comment on Pling.

### License

This project is licensed under the GNU GPL v3 - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

### Acknowledgements
As noted in the intro, this theme is based on [Beautyline](https://store.kde.org/p/1425426) icons by [sajjad606](https://store.kde.org/u/sajjad606) and [Candy](https://github.com/EliverLara/candy-icons) icons by [EliverLara](https://github.com/EliverLara), and incorporates EliverLara's [Sweet folders](https://github.com/EliverLara/Sweet-folders) as well.

Commit message:

Monochrome tray arrow fixed
- The monochrome tray arrow no longer depends on modifying /usr/share/plasma/plasmoids/org.kde.plasma.private.systemtray/contents/ui/ExpanderArrow.qml, README updated
- index.theme tweaked to try to prevent monochrome icons from appearing outside of the tray, instructions added to README

README.md, after:

# Sours
Sours is an SVG icon theme for Linux. It is a descendant of [Beautyline](https://store.kde.org/p/1425426) and [Candy](https://github.com/EliverLara/candy-icons) icons, with [Sweet folders](https://github.com/EliverLara/Sweet-folders) and substantial original artwork added to complete the theme.

Features:

- Tasty gradients
- Rounded lines
- Uplit
- Sci-fi inspired gaps
- Color-coordinated: files match their app and directory (where possible)
- Monochrome system tray icons (full color option available)

![Preview image for the Sours icon theme](preview/image-38.png)

## Installation
- Extract Sours.tar.gz to ~/.local/share/icons

or

- In System Settings -> Appearance -> Icons, use the 'Install from File...' dialog to find and select Sours.tar.gz

then

- In System Settings -> Appearance -> Icons, select Sours and click Apply (lower right)
- It may be necessary to log out and log back in or restart to fully apply the icon theme (icon caches are stubbornly persistent)

- For Dolphin to use the provided symbolic icons for named folders (like Downloads or Github) it may be necessary to:
    - Right-click the folder and open Properties
    - Click the icon next to its name
    - Choose the corresponding icon in the dialog

- If an app has a white icon outside the tray (lookin' at you, KeepassXC):
    - Right-click the app in your application launcher
    - Select "Edit Application"
    - On the General tab, click the app's icon and use the icon browser dialog to choose the properly colored icon

## Customization
- To use the icon you want for a particular app:
    - Navigate to ~/.local/share/icons/Sours/apps/scalable
    - Duplicate the app's current icon for a backup
    - Duplicate the desired icon
    - Rename the copy to the correct name for the app and Overwrite in the dialog that appears

- When an app has the default 'W' Walyand icon, you can give it a more specific one by navigating to the 'More actions for this window' menu -> More Actions -> Configure Special Application Settings... -> Add Property -> Desktop file name -> Force -> put the preferred desktop file name. I used this method to correct the OpenRGB icon (desktop file name OpenRGB) and to give Kvantum Preview the Kvantum Manager icon (desktop file name kvantummanager). The .desktop files are located in either ~/.local/share/applications or /usr/share/applications

- Changing icon colors:
    - Use hex color codes in your preferred text editor
    - Changing icon colors in Inkscape, though convenient, is not recommended because Inkscape ignores the `fill` attribute and only modifies the `style` attribute. Both Inkscape and the Dolphin .svg preview prefer the `style` attribute, while rendered icons prefer the `fill` attribute. This creates a frustrating situation where icons will appear changed in Inkscape and Dolphin but will actually render unchanged. To solve this problem, delete `fill` attribute lines, as long as a fill is provided by the `style` attribute. After deleting `fill` attributes, editing colors in Inkscape should go smoothly.
    - [ColorHexa](https://www.colorhexa.com/) can help you identify colors and provide conversions between RGB(A) and hex color codes

- Change gradient direction in Inkscape using the gradient tool

- Modify icon shapes in Inkscape. The rounded lines can be touchy. To modify individual pieces of an icon, you can duplicate the paths you want to change, stretch/shrink the duplicates, and then use the 'Union' Path tool to make your pieces a single path again, creating a new path with the same rounded edges but a different length/width

## Notes
The conversion of Beautyline and Candy into Sours is still ongoing. Please open an issue if you notice where this process could be accelerated.

### Contributing
Icon themes are inevitably a work in progress. Please open an issue if you notice any stock or broken icons. To make an icon request, leave a comment on Pling.

### License

This project is licensed under the GNU GPL v3 - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

### Acknowledgements
As noted in the intro, this theme is based on [Beautyline](https://store.kde.org/p/1425426) icons by [sajjad606](https://store.kde.org/u/sajjad606) and [Candy](https://github.com/EliverLara/candy-icons) icons by [EliverLara](https://github.com/EliverLara), and incorporates EliverLara's [Sweet folders](https://github.com/EliverLara/Sweet-folders) as well.
